# **Case Study: Bellabeat Data Analysis**

#### Analyst: Patrick Kenny

#### Date: August 15, 2022

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

### This case study follows a six step data analysis process:

1. Ask
2. Prepare
3. Process
4. Analyze
5. Share
6. Act

## Scenario

Bellabeat is a small but successful manufacturer of health focused products for women. The company has had success as a small scale, but its founders believe it has the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Urska Srsen, co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, believes that analyzing smart device data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. I am a Junior Data Analyst working on the marketing team at Bellabeat.

## **1. Ask**

**Business Task: The CCO, Urska Srsen, has asked me to analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices, and then apply my findings to one of Bellabeat’s products.**

Primary Stakeholders: Bellabeat co-founders, Ursa Srsen (CCO) and Sando Mur

Secondary Stakeholders: Bellabeat marketing analytics team

## **2. Prepare**

Data Source: The data used for this analysis is FitBit Fitness Tracker Data. This data is CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius, via Kaggle. This dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016, in which thirty eligible Fitbit users sonsented to the submission of personal tracker data. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit

The dataset includes 18 CSV files.

Does the data align with the ROCCC criteria?

* **R**eliable: **LOW** - This data was collected from a small sample size (30 users), of which characteristics like gender, age, location is unknown. In addition to this, of the thirty Fitbit users who participated in the survey, only a fraction submitted complete data. 
* **O**riginal: **MEDIUM** - For our analysis, we are not using the original dataset produced via Amazon Mechanical Turk, but there are consistent and accurate citations. We have no reason to believe that the content of the dataset has changed from it's original form. 
* **C**omprehensive: **MEDIUM** - This dataset does not include some information that would be relevant and helpful for our analysis. This includes information such as gender, age, location, device usage, etc. Additionally, only covers a short period of time, (~2 months). This limits our ability to identify trends. 
* **C**urrent: **MEDIUM** - Our data was collected between March and May of 2016, making it a litt more than 6 years old. While this is not an extreme amount of time, there have been substantial societal and social changed during that period. 
* **C**ited: **HIGH** - The source and means of data collection is accurately and clearly cited. 

Notable Problems with the data:

* With only 30 users participating in this study, we have a relatively small sample size. 
* The data collected from each participant widely varies, with some participants responding 31 times (max), one participant responding 3 times (min), and multiple participants responding around 20 times. 
* The dataset that contains information on participant weight is very limited, with only 8 users submitting data. 
* Our dataset is limited, only including a two month period during the Spring. (Assuming our users live in the US)

## **3. Process**

